Contact the emergency room

In an emergency, Maccabi members may go to any emergency room, even in hospitals that do not have an arrangement with Maccabi.

     included

     My Maccabi
     included

     Maccabi Gold
     included

     Maccabi Silver
     included

     The basic basket

Eligibility conditions are affected by:

medical condition
Who is eligible?

Members who went to the emergency room in cases that the Ministry of Health and Maccabi defined as exempt from payment or partial payment.
What is the eligibility?

Partial or full financing, depending on the case.
How much does it cost?
Inquiries are free of charge

Reason for referral


Exemptions from payment as part of the health basket


Additional cases that qualify for exemption - within Maccabi

hospitalization


A friend who went to the emergency room and was hospitalized, even if he did not have a commitment or a doctor's referral


     A friend who refused to be hospitalized despite the decision of the emergency room
     A member who was transferred from the emergency room at one hospital to the emergency room at another hospital and was hospitalized - provided that the transfer to another hospital was made in light of the decision of the hospital's medical staff, and not the member's decision

Arriving at the emergency room with a referral


     A doctor's referral and/or a commitment form (within 24 hours of the form being produced). The exemption is valid even if the member was not hospitalized
     A doctor's referral given during a home visit, on behalf of a company that has an agreement with Maccabi



     A referral from a doctor of a Maccabi center or a center with an agreement with Maccabi.
     A telephone referral from a Maccabi doctor, provided that it was given to the member before he went to the emergency room.
     A referral from a Maccabi nurse, given to a member prior to his referral to the emergency room, in cases where there is no doctor at the facility and the patient's condition requires an urgent referral to the emergency room.
     Referral from the nurse of the "Maccabi non-stop" call center outside the operating hours of Maccabi clinics - provided that the member arrived at the emergency room within 24 hours of the referral date.

Evacuation to the ER by ambulance


Evacuation by ATN/NATN ambulance

Fractures and injuries


     A new fracture
     Acute shoulder or elbow dislocation
     An injury that requires fusion with suturing, gluing or another means of fusion
     Dislocation of the jaw



     Dislocation of any joint, except the fingers and toes
     Dento-alveolar damage (dislodged tooth or serious displacement of the tooth) that requires immediate fixation of the tooth

foreign body or toxic substance


Inhalation of a foreign body into the respiratory tract


     Swallowing a foreign body (when Maccabi's medical centers and hotlines are closed)
     Ingestion of a toxic substance (when Maccabi's medical centers and hotlines are closed)

Burns


3rd degree burn


eyes


Foreign body penetration into the eye


A burn in the eye as a result of a chemical substance

Pregnancy and Birth


Labor


     Immobility passes from the 28th week onwards - relying on a doctor's diagnosis that indicates this
     Massive bleeding in a pregnant woman

babies


     Sudden onset of high fever (above 38.5 degrees) - up to two months of age (60 days)
     Head injury - up to two years of age



Treatment given in an emergency room


Treatment given in the emergency room for these diseases:

     cancer
     Hemophilia
     Cystic fibrosis CF
     Familial dysautonomia
     Dialysis patients



Urinary retention that required the installation of a catheter in the emergency room

victims of violence


     victims of sexual violence
     victims of domestic violence



Hostilities


A victim of a hostile action is recognized by the National Insurance - on the day of the event or close to the event


accidents


     Work accident - a work accident victim who has a certificate from his employer about an injury at work (form BL 250 or form BL 283), provided he goes to the emergency room within 7 days of the injury
     Car accident - visit to the emergency room up to 48 hours from the day of the accident. The exemption will be granted upon presentation of a police certificate
     Car accident - a visit to the emergency room within 3-7 days from the date of the accident. The exemption will be granted provided that the need for the visit arises from the accident. A certificate from the police is required in which the member is listed as injured in the accident, as well as a discharge sheet from the emergency department
     Car accident - a visit to the emergency room from the 8th day after the accident onwards: the exemption will be granted provided that the reason for the visit is due to the accident, and only in the case where the other members must pay a fee (a visit to the emergency room from 11:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m., or in the event that there was a medical justification for visiting the emergency room
     Student accident - a student injured at school or on a school trip. The exemption is conditional on submitting a certificate from the school



Psychiatric screening


     Applying to an emergency room in a general hospital on the orders of a district doctor or psychiatrist or according to a court order in a criminal proceeding, according to the Law on Treatment of the Mentally Ill
     A friend who referred or was referred to an emergency room in a psychiatric hospital
     Application to a psychiatric emergency room at a general hospital

Police and Security Service


     A detainee who is in detention for up to 12 months from the day of detention - goes to the emergency room from the detention center and is hospitalized
     A detainee who is in detention for up to 12 months from the day of detention - goes to the emergency room with a doctor's referral



     A police officer injured in an operational activity
     A police officer referred by the police or the Shin Bet

Allergy attack or severe allergic reaction


A life-threatening allergic reaction


     Convulsions due to high fever (when the centers and medical centers of Maccabi are closed)
     Severe allergic reaction requiring intravenous infusion and/or referral after Epifen injection

Asthma attack


Asthma attack (when Maccabi's call centers and medical centers are closed)

head injury


     Head injury up to the age of two
     Head injury over the age of 70



Hit or bite of an animal


     Snake bite
     Scorpion bite



     Animal bite - only if a rabies vaccination was performed in the emergency room
     When the health office is closed: animal bite
     Appeal to the emergency room following medical treatment


     Bleeding after an invasive operation in a hospital - up to 10 days after the operation
     A plaster patch applied the day before the application (when the centers and medical centers of Maccabi are closed)

diabetes mellitus


Juvenile diabetic patient with hypoglycemia of 60 units or less

epilepsy


An epileptic seizure in a diagnosed epilepsy patient

 


An epileptic attack when Maccabi's call centers and medical centers are closed

Evacuation from a public place


Evacuation to the ER due to a sudden event:

     Loss of consciousness in case of epilepsy
     Loss of consciousness in a public place and a passer-by called an ambulance


Inquiries at a reduced fee

 

                 Acute dyspnoea attack - partial deductible will be approved only on the condition that in the emergency room the saturation was measured below 90 or intravenous treatment was given.

                 In these cases, a partial deductible will only be approved if the referral to the emergency room was outside the operating hours of the Maccabi clinics and the emergency centers:
                 1. Going to the emergency room from 11:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m., for a reason that is not included in cases that grant a full exemption.
                 2. A person with known heart disease who is attacked by chest pains.
                 3. Asthma attack (during the hours when Maccabi centers are open)
                 4. Renal colic that required intravenous treatment in the emergency room
                 5. Performing CT or MRI in the emergency department
                 6. Diagnosed and symptomatic arrhythmia
                 7. 2nd degree burn up to age 3, regardless of body area percentage
                 8. Members aged 3 to 18 - 2nd degree burn, if the burn covers 10% of the body surface or more
                 9. A friend who is pregnant from week 20 onwards - abdominal injury

Under these circumstances, you must pay a deductible of NIS 235 for the obligation, and subject to changes in the Ministry of Health tariff. The payment is to Maccabi, for producing a commitment to the hospital.
Full paid inquiries

 

If you went to the emergency room from 06:00 in the morning until 23:00 at night without a doctor's referral, and not because of one of the reasons listed as exempt by law and specified here, you must pay a full payment of NIS 1,047 according to the Ministry of Health tariff.
Where is the service provided?

Every emergency room.
what should you do?

         When applying to the emergency room due to one of the reasons that are exempt from payment according to the state health law, there is no need to contact the medical center (branch) to receive a commitment. The hospital will bill Maccabi directly for the cost of the emergency room visit.
         In the event that the hospital requested a commitment from Maccabi, or to verify eligibility after the visit to the emergency room, you must deliver to the medical center a doctor's referral (if any) and a discharge summary from the emergency room (no original document is required). The documents will be checked and depending on the reason, Maccabi will issue a commitment and determine whether a deductible is required.
         The medical center will contact you up to 3 working days from the day the documents arrive.

What else should you know?

         The medical treatment provided in emergency rooms is subject to a fee, according to the Ministry of Health tariff. The Ministry of Health has defined cases that are exempt from paying the fee or part of it.
         Before going to the emergency room, it is recommended to seek care in the community, to Maccabi's emergency medical centers and in the agreement, or to consult with a Maccabi emergency center nurse non-stop, by calling *3555.
         When the arrival at the hospital is not due to an emergency, there is no need to go through the emergency room.