Evacuation by ambulance following loss of consciousness

Evacuation by ambulance for a friend who has lost consciousness in a public place or in case of an epileptic attack.

Last update: 28.3.23

     included

     My Maccabi
     included

     Maccabi Gold
     included

     Maccabi Silver
     included

     The basic basket

Eligibility conditions are affected by:

medical condition
Who is eligible?

         A friend who lost consciousness in a public place and the ambulance was called by a passerby
         A friend who lost consciousness due to an epileptic fit

What is the eligibility?

Evacuation to an emergency room in an MDA ambulance or an authorized company on behalf of the Ministry of Health.

     In case of evacuation by MDA ambulance - Maccabi will pay the cost of evacuation.
     In case of evacuation by a company authorized by the Ministry of Health - a refund will be given up to the amount of the MDA rate or a refund for the rate paid - whichever is lower.

For information on eligibility for evacuation by ambulance without hospitalization
How much does it cost?

No charge.
Where is the service provided?

In a public hospital near the place of residence or the place of the event.
what should you do?

         If you are entitled to financing from Maccabi, you have not yet paid for the evacuation by ambulance and 85 days have not yet passed from the evacuation date - you must contact the Maccabi Medical Center to obtain a commitment for the evacuation. The branch office will transfer the obligation directly to the MDA or the ambulance company in the agreement.
         If you are entitled to financing from Maccabi, you have not yet paid for the evacuation by ambulance and 85 days have passed since the evacuation date - you must pay the voucher independently and then go to the medical center offices with the original receipt and a letter of discharge from the emergency room in order to receive a refund.
         If you are entitled to funding from Maccabi and paid the evacuation voucher independently - you must contact the medical center offices with the original receipt and a letter of discharge from the emergency room in order to receive a refund.
         To receive a commitment from the medical center, you must bring the voucher for the payment of the ambulance company and a letter of discharge from the emergency room.
         If you paid the evacuation voucher via the Internet - you must bring to the medical center's offices a printed receipt from the Internet together with the original billing notice from MDA and a letter of discharge from the emergency room. Only after the case has been examined and approved will the medical center be able to make the refund, based on the original receipt.

To receive a refund, you must submit a request for a refund on the Maccabi Online website or in the application and attach the required documents.

If necessary, the documents can also be submitted at the medical center's queuing station or sent by registered mail to the medical center.

 

the required documents:

         Original receipt of payment to the ambulance company.
         Letter of discharge from sorting

to locate a medical center
For an explanation of submitting a request for a refund on the website or in the application
What else should you know?

         Maccabi issues an automatic commitment to the MDA. However, if you received a reminder about a debt to the MDA, it is your responsibility to contact the medical center to settle the debt in order not to accrue interest and attorney's fees.
         The funding from Maccabi will not include fees and attorney's fees, if any, but only the basic amount of evacuation by ambulance.
         Evacuating a student in an ambulance - eligibility is the same as that of all Maccabi members.
         Information on personal accident insurance for students on the website of the Ministry of Education >>